# Previously in CI Tooling

----

## CI & QA

> Continuous Integration (CI) is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository several times a day. Each check-in is then verified by an automated build, allowing teams to detect problems early.
By integrating regularly, you can detect errors quickly, and locate them more easily.

----

## eslint & scsslint

----

<!-- .slide data-backgrund="#4EC595" class="orange-slide" -->

## TravisCI

----

## Exercise!

Were you able to fix the issue?

```
Install the scss_lint gem
```

---

# Testing

- **Unit tests**: A single piece of code (usually an object or a function) is tested, isolated from other pieces
- **Integration tests**: Multiple pieces are tested together, for example testing database access code against a test database
- **Acceptance tests** (also called Functional tests): Automatic testing of the entire application, for example using a tool like Selenium to automatically run a browser.

----

# Unit Testing

Our code is now linted, but does it work?


----

## Our Objectives:

- Create unit testing task
- Add some tests for a function
- Add the task to TravisCI

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="#E5623D" data-transition="zoom" class="orange-slide" -->
# Warning

## We're using ES6
*(which you know thanks to **papa**...)*

---

# What's unit testing?

----

>Unit testing is a software development process in which the smallest testable parts of an application, called units, are individually and independently scrutinized for proper operation.

----

## What is a unit anyway? 

> "In the best case, it is a pure function that you can deal with in some way"

... but, we're dealing with javascript!

---

## Make Things Testable

To be testable your code needs to have the unit separated.

The result? Is a code:

- More clean
- Elegant
- Bug free

----

### Unit testing should be:

- Simple
- Quick to write
- Quick to run
- Isolated from dependencies


----

## TDD and BDD ?

**WTF** am I talking about?!

----

### Test-Driven Development
### Behavior-Driven Development

---

# Let's start

Mocha and Chai

```
npm i mocha chai grunt-mocha-test --save-dev
```

Babel register

```
npm i babel-register
```

----

## Let's write our little class `Sum`

```javascript
export default class Utils {
    // Silence is Golden
}
```

----

### Let's start from ...
#### ...the test!

The function we're going to create is `sum();`

---

## Your turn

Team up! ..and start from the test!

- **Given a string of a path, returns the `filename.ext`**
- **Given a date object, returns the date the format `DD/MM/YYYY`**

---

## Add it to the test task, so TravisCI picks it

---

## For next time:

Add a report page for the coverage

---

# Grazie! 
